I. Title:

      Using the Scalable PETSc Solvers

II. Short Course Organizer(s):

      Barry Smith
      Argonne National Laboratory
      bsmith@mcs.anl.gov

III. Associated SIAM Conference:

     SIAM Parallel Processing 2006

IV. Rationale

  Many large-scale numerical simulations require the parallel
generation and solution of algebraic systems of equations. There are a
large number of available algorithms and software packages for solving
these systems. The Portable Extensible Toolkit for Scientific
computation (PETSc) provides a common interface for many of these
solvers.

V. Instructor(s):

   Barry Smith, Argonne National Laboratory, is one of the two original
   developers of PETSc. He has led the project for the past ten years.

   Other PETSc developers as appropriate.
   

VI. Course Description

  We will teach how one defines and solves large scale linear and 
nonlinear algebraic equations arising from the discretization of PDEs
using PETSc.

VII. Level of the Material

   60% beginner
   30% intermediate
   10% advanced

Target Audience

  Graduate students and researchers in computational science.

Recommended Background

   Experience with Unix and C, C++ or Fortran programming. 
   Elementary understanding of linear algebra and partial differential equations.
   Experience with MPI or parallel computing is not assumed.

Course Outline

  All attendees should bring a laptop (with compilers)

  Introductory example (15 minutes)
    Hands-on: Installing PETSc (25 minutes)
  Using the solvers for structured grids (15 minutes)
  Vectors and Matrices (30 minutes)
  Using the solvers for unstructured grids (30 minutes)
  Available preconditioners (30 minutes)
    Hands-on: Experimenting with preconditioners (15 minutes)
  Available Krylov methods (15 minutes)
    Hands-on: Experimenting with Krylov (10 minutes)
  Multigrid methods (30 minutes)
    Hands-on: Experimenting with multigrid (15 minutes)  
  Working with Python (15 minutes)
  The TOPS Solver Component (15 minutes)
